just two days after Israel killed seven
Aid workers in Gaza an Al jazer
investigation has found they were
intentionally targeted the Israeli
military launched three consecutive air
strikes against the world Central
kitchen workers despite being told of
their movement reports also suggest
Israeli military officers and soldiers
in Gaza routinely act on their own
violating Army regulations and proper
chain of command one Israeli newspaper
has quoted Israeli Army sources as
saying in Gaza everyone does as he
pleases the world Central Kitchen a
agency Convoy was struck as it left a
Food Warehouse in darab Bala on Monday
six of the victims were foreign
Nationals and one was
Palestinian well here is what Al jaz's
investigation has revealed World Central
Kitchen says it's three vehicles left
the warehouse here in der Al Bala
sometime around 10:30 p.m. local time on
April 1st the Convoy just over 4 kilm
making it to rashed Street along the
coast Witnesses say the first vehicle
was hit by a missile here just before
10:45 p.m. the injured was seen being
transferred from the first car to the
second armored vehicle the second car
made it 800 M south from the first
attack when it was bombed to photos
clearly show it was hit straight through
the roof by a projectile from above the
Third vehicle in the Convoy made it a
further 1600 M down the road before it
was hit by a third and final strike also
through its roof let's discuss all these
developments now with Omar asur
professor of security and Military
studies at The doai Institute for
Graduate Studies good to have you again
with us on set Omar um let's talk about
this report in harit which uh talks
about a disconnect between what the
Israeli Army says and what actually
happens on the ground in Gaza are we in
a situation where soldiers in Gaza are
setting the rules for themselves it's
it's complicated so the Israeli Army has
a history of uh what we call Mission
command so uh giving the uh allowing
junian officers to make um decisions uh
in the battlefield without going back to
the senior uh commanders it's a very
Israeli way of warfare and they learned
it from from the Germans from the verm
who was fighting they used to call it
out TRS tactique which is the mission
type tactics so devolve usually to the
junior officers to have more tactical
aggression and uh more rapid decision
making in terms of the combat situation
so that can Will yield tactical
aggression and will yield some tactical
and operational victories but also will
yield uh trigger happy soldiers who may
shoot the wrong people and in the case
of the Israelis in Gaza you had wrong
people such as civilians uh tens of
thousands of them you had wrong people
such as the aid workers you had wrong
people such as as the hostages and also
you had a lot of Friendly Fire the rate
of Friendly Fire death is in uh in the
in the Gaza war is about one in five So
20% of the Israeli soldiers killed were
killed by their own colleagues not by
the adversaries so this is uh one issue
and it's not just Gaza it has a very
long history it has a long history
that's quite interesting so it's not
necessarily a lack of discipline from
the soldiers on the ground but rather
something that's ingrained in the system
itself that makes it uh possible to have
so much collateral damage yeah it is an
Israeli way of warfare uh but also what
makes it more and more um um obvious in
this case is one uh there is no
ramifications for um so it keeps
happening because there's no
accountability and no consequences for
yeah and also it has a history Ariel
Shon who violated many many rules was
still a decorated General as opposed to
a court Marshal officer which he would
have been in any NATO army or any other
Army um and also uh the other thing is
that uh in in this particular case uh we
don't see much uh uh internal procedures
uh when when these violations happen and
apparently there is um a a hinted
unspoken um shall we say structural to
tolerance of of getting the wrong what
is the motivation though ultimately when
they target Aid workers when they target
uh hospitals medical workers ambulances
and so on we've heard franches albanesi
the UN special repur say that Israel is
doing this deliberately targeting Aid
workers to scare uh humanitarian uh
workers from going into Gaza to starve
the population of Gaza deliberately is
that the intention here e think it it's
very difficult to determine the
intention but it is possible it could be
a way of uh what you can call Strategic
bombardment so or the D Doctrine in the
Israeli way of War
which uh means basically punishing the
civilian population by targeting the
infrastructure by targeting uh some of
the uh civilian assets to punish the
civilians uh because they permitted uh
attacks from their from the territories
and this was conducted in Lebanon and
and it seems to be conducted on steroids
in in in Gaza so this is possible but
it's still too early to determine what
is the intention and also it's very
difficult because it it TR needs either
independent investigators or uh a
sincere uh internal investigations by
the Israeli armies and both both are not
going to happen at at least at the
moment thank you very much Omar as
always good to get your thoughts s Alish
from the Doha Institute of Graduate
Studies